CREATE database hotel;

use hotel;

CREATE TABLE owner(
owner_id SMALLINT PRIMARY KEY,
owner_fname VARCHAR(255),
owner_lname VARCHAR(255),
owner_phone VARCHAR(255),
owner_username VARCHAR(255),
owner_password VARCHAR(255),
owner_birthday VARCHAR(255)) Engine=InnoDB;


CREATE TABLE animal(
animal_id SMALLINT PRIMARY KEY,
animal_name VARCHAR(255),
animal_species VARCHAR(255),
animal_description VARCHAR(255),
animal_food VARCHAR(255),
animal_medical VARCHAR(255),
animal_instruction VARCHAR(255),
animal_arrival VARCHAR(255),
animal_depart VARCHAR(255)) Engine=InnoDB;

CREATE TABLE staff(
staff_id SMALLINT PRIMARY KEY,
staff_fname VARCHAR(255),
staff_lname VARCHAR(255),
staff_username VARCHAR(255),
staff_password VARCHAR(255),
staff_hours VARCHAR(255)) Engine=InnoDB;

CREATE TABLE stays(
owner_id SMALLINT PRIMARY KEY,
animal_id SMALLINT,
stay_price VARCHAR(255),
FOREIGN KEY(owner_id) REFERENCES owner(owner_id)
	ON DELETE RESTRICT ON UPDATE CASCADE,
FOREIGN KEY(animal_id) REFERENCES animal(animal_id)
	ON DELETE RESTRICT ON UPDATE CASCADE) Engine=InnoDB;

grant all on hotel.* to 'hoteluser'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'hotelpass';

CREATE TABLE room(
room_id SMALLINT PRIMARY KEY,
price VARCHAR(255)) Engine=InnoDB;

alter table stays
add room_id VARCHAR(255);

alter table stays
add price VARCHAR(255);

alter table stays
add check_in VARCHAR(255);

alter table stays
add check_out VARCHAR(255);
